*** LogicWorks 5 for Windows - 2003-12-15 ***

This note contains general information on how to get support
and assistance on LogicWorks 5

IMPORTANT: FREE UPDATES!!!

After installation, you should check our web site at www.logicworks5.com
for a free update patch to the latest version.


TECHNICAL SUPPORT

Installation Support is available through the Pearson Higher Education
Media Product Assistance Hotline at:

  Tel: 1-800-677-6337 M-F (8:00AM to 5:00PM CST) 
  Fax: 847-486-2595 
  email: media.support@pearsoned.com

For technical issues regarding program operation, contact your instructor
or teaching assistant, or check the on-line help available on the
LogicWorks On-line Support Page at:

    http://www.logicworks5.com


FREE UPGRADES, HELP, AND SUPPORT ON-LINE!

Our LogicWorks Web Site is available for your use at:

    http://www.logicworks5.com

The site is being constantly expanded and gives you instant access to
the latest version patches, FAQs, extra symbol libraries, optional add-ons,
etc. Check back regularly, or sign up for our mailing list to
be notified automatically when new stuff becomes available.


CHANGES IN VERSION 5, RELATIVE TO 4

- VHDL: LogicWorks now allows you to create simulation models using
  a subset of the VHDL hardware description language.  Please note that
  some parts of the language are not implemented in this version, so some
  VHDL models created on other systems may not run in LogicWorks without
  modification.  A separate ReadMe file provided with the package provides
  more information on the specific limitations in this version.

- Simulation values of signals can now be displayed directly on the
  schematic diagram as the simulation progresses.

- All simulation values now use real time units, e.g. nanoseconds.

- IOPnael tool allows you to display and modify simulation values and
  creae custom display panels for your models.

- Many improvements to the symbol editor tool, including the ability to
  automatically display pin names with each pin.

- TestPanel module allows you to specify a program of input values to
  apply to a circuit under test and compare the results to the expected values.

- Many small new features and improvements.
